# Performance Solution for earthen-tyre wall extension

The following Performance Solution is for presentation to your local council inspector and/or building surveyor to show that the foundation, footings and structural integrity of the rammed-earth-tyre wall out-performs the structural integrity and fire safety of tranditional timber-framed construction.

## Performance Based Design Brief for Butreesses against earthen-tyre wall:

The buttresses on Earth#1 were used for a number of reasons (structural, health/amenity, aesthetic and accessibility)
  * The buttress feature was started by an American engineer which required them for structural integrity to lengthen and increase the overall size of the building (ISO6707-1), thereby ensuring the structural integrity of the earth/tyre wall from Earthquakes and High Wind Regions (N3+). Subsequent engineers have determined that these buttresses are not required for areas in Australia with wind and/or Earthquake area.  Nonetheless, the buttresses provide 'peace of mind' for those who might experience hurricane force winds on the coast or in alpire regions. See attached engineers report.  Most importantly, the Performancee Solution provided by the buttresse(s) enable earthen tyre walls to be expanded to the legal maximum size of a building in Australia.
  * The Buttresses were used in Earth #1 primarily to solve health and amenity issues.  For example, they are used as the basis for mounting wall framework and solid mounting for hanging doors (which could also be achieved via other framing standards). The buttresses are over-engineered with internal steel reinforced rebar, which results in an internal wall system which has structural stability for a continous wall of 3x the current length.
  * Design criteria: buttresses have become a core design feature of Earthships, alongside the bottle walls.  Buttresses, other than their ancient historical use in architecture, are also a feature of the Earth1, helping create division of space and a natural line of sight to the beautiful ceiling of Earth 1.  In short, the buttresses in Earth1 are a key aesthetic feature. 
  * Livability / accessibility: In addition to providing division between room, the concrete buttresses contrasted against the earthen adobe walls provide a perfect location for the wood heater as a thermal radiating mass.  While the exemplar energy efficiency (5 star) does not need the additional heat, it is still comforting to have a fire on the SouthCoast of Australia when Antarctic winds are blowing.
